Alright.
So, let's continue with the line of testing we're working on in the last video.
We want to create a new class or a new interface.
Let's go and do that.
And we'll call this interface, MoreSpecificDefaultable.
Okay, I'll paste in the code.
So, this code's creating another interface
that extends the previous one Defaultable, we're working on in the last video,
and overrides the default method.
The default method being default, not abstract method.
Again, for context,
there's our default method from the defaultable interface.
So, that's the additional interface,
and it's also declaring a class here, more specific
that implements both interfaces,
the defaultable interface as well as the MoreSpecificDefaultable,
and implements the abstract method by simply invoking the default method.
But whose default method?
You see the comment that I've added on line 20.
Let's run it to see.
So this example is demonstrating that the JVM will select the method
on the more specific interface
over that of the less specific interface
when matching signatures are found on both interfaces.
So, let's try something different here.
I'm going to go back to our MoreSpecific class definition up here,
place it over the top.
So, basically, I've just added the extends DefaultClass there. If we run this now,
you see this time, we've got different output,
Testing defaultNotAbstractMethod on class.
So that proves that the class method on DefaultClass
from the BaseClass is again selected above any interface method
even more specific interfaces.
So, let's just undo that change again.
So, back to how it was before.
Right. So, now we've done that, let's change the MoreSpecificDefaultable interface,
and specifically, what we're going to do is change the defaultNotAbstractMethod
and remove the body from it.
I'm going to do that, I'm going to delete the body.
I'm going to remove default, so it's just void.
I think I've got an extra curly brace there that shouldn't be there.
You see now, it's just void defaultNotAbstractMethod.
So, by doing that, I've introduced a compiler-error
on the declaration of the MoreSpecific class.
Because of this change, you know, just hover over that,
you can see that MoreSpecific must either be declared abstract
or implement the abstract method defaultNotAbstractMethod
in MoreSpecificDefaultable without interface.
But basically, I'm now enforcing
any implementing classes to declare an override of this particular method.
So, let's go one step further in this MoreSpecific class.
I want to append a method in here.
You can see what I've done there, I've added a defaultNotAbstractMethod.
We've got an error there because we're trying to specify
that we want to use defaultable's default method.
And hover over that, Bad type qualifier in default super call:
redundant interface Defaultable is extended by MoreSpecificDefaultable.
So, we're not allowed to directly reference defaultable's default method
even with the use of ‘super’ in this instance.
But what if I really do want to use defaultable's default method,
what we can do is this, I'm going to replace this method again
with another bit of code.
What I'm doing there is creating an anonymous class of type defaultable
and calling its default method.
Run the code,
Testing Default, as you can see there.
That proves that I'm able to invoke the method on defaultable,
and looking back at defaultable,
we can see testing default is the output,
so it's proving that that method was invoked.
Let's delete this defaultNotAbstractMethod again for MoreSpecific.
And as you can see by doing that,
Class MoreSpecific must be declared abstract or implement abstract
method defaultNotAbstractMethod,
which makes sense because we've just deleted that method.
We can fix this by replacing the class declaration of
MoreSpecific with the following.
You can see that I'm extending the DefaultClass and still implementing
both interfaces.
The DefaultClass has inherited a definition of defaultNotAbstractMethod
from base class which is extending. So, again, DefaultClass
down here, which is extending base class,
if you recall base class
has the defaultNotAbstractMethod.
So, if we run this,
we test defaultNotAbstractMethod on class,
which again relates to the output
from the defaultNotAbstractMethod from our base class.
So, again DefaultClass has inherited a default of defaultNotAbstractMethod
from base class which it extends, and we saw that.
And that method satisfies the requirement that MoreSpecific,
the class must implement the defaultNotAbstractMethod.
So, from these examples, I've demonstrated
that when you extend an interface that contains a default method,
you can, firstly, ignore the default method
in an implementing class or extending interface - the method is still available to use.
I also demonstrated that you can override the default method in an implementing class
or extending interface.
And also demonstrated that you can override the default method
making it abstract in an implementing class or extending interface,
forcing implementation to subtypes or implementing types.
So, in the examples, I've shown this in the previous video,
the JVM uses prioritization rules to disambiguate the methods.
Let's look at a situation though, where it cannot do that.
So, we need a new class for this. And we'll create a new one.
We'll call this InterfaceMethods.
Actually, it is a class but with some methods as well as you'll see when I paste in the code.
Now, there is an error in this class which we'll talk about,
but the code that I pasted in firstly has two unrelated interfaces
that both declare a default method.
That has the same signature between them,
you can see it's doing that.
Specifically, the default getGait method for both,
and also scrolling down the class, ConfusedClass
implements both interfaces and attempts to override the abstract methods
calling the default methods ideally that each interface provides.
Again, we have got an error there, ConfusedClass inherits unrelated defaults
for getGait from types Walkable and Strollable,
being our two interfaces that we declared up here.
So, in this example, there's two unrelated interfaces.
Both the default method of the same signature
and our codes attempting to invoke the method.
The compiler cannot use its prioritization rules to determine
which method is the best fit.
I need to override getGait in my own class,
so I can do this by adding this code to the ConfusedClass, overriding that method.
We've got our own getGait method now for ConfusedClass.
And obviously, I used the wrong name here.
I used the name of the actual project
instead of using the name of the class. So, let's actually make a change to that,
or refactor this to call it the right name,
of course, it should be ConfusedClass.
That's better, we now get it working.
And what I'll do just to show the things where as they should have been, we'll delete this again.
Cut that out.
We still have the same error showing earlier before I made the rename,
but now if we add the method back again,
we can see that the compiler-errors have gone. And when we run it,
we can see, we get the output when walking, gait is 5.2, and strolling, gait is 5.2.
Maybe, looking at this, I want to use the
stroll interfaces getGait method
when executing the stroll method.
And again if we run this first,
we can see we've got the same result 5.2 for both.
So we wanted to use the other stroll.
We, basically, want to use this stroll method, so that we actually use the getGait method from
strollable to effectively return a different rate there.
So, what if we want to do that.
Well, the way around that is in our ConfusedClass.
To replace the code
with stroll, with the code like that,
you can see the code change I've added there.
Specifically, Strollable.super.getGait,
run the code,
you can see we've now got a different result for when strolling, gait is 2.5
instead of 5.2, which it was previously.
Alright.
So, let's do something similar for walk.
The walk method, you can see here in our ConfusedClass,
I'm going to change that to this code.
You can see, we're being specific there Walkable.super.getGait.
Run this,
now we've got, when walking, gait is 3.5,
when strolling, gait is 2.5,
consistent with the values that have been defined in the default methods,
the getGait for both Walkable and Strollable.
So, with that said down here,
since we're no longer using ConfusedClass getGait method.
Can I get rid of it?
So, what happens when I delete this given that we're being very specific
with getGait in our walk and stroll methods.
Removal of this method has given us a compiler-error
and it's the same one we had before, ConfusedClass inherits unrelated defaults
for getGait from types Walkable and Strollable.
getGait is found in both walkable and strollable as we know.
So, even though I've specified which getGait I want to use in all invocations,
I still cannot get the class to compile
without implementing a getGait method override.
So, I'll undo that last removal of the method
so that our code compiles again.
Alright, so, in the last two videos, I've covered the need for a default method
and how it allows interfaces to be altered
without forcing recompilation of implementing classes,
including lambda expressions.
I've reviewed the default methods declaration and its limitations,
and shown you how the JVM disambiguates methods,
giving precedence, first, to any method in a class
in the class hierarchy,
and second to the most specific interface.
If the JVM cannot disambiguate, you must override the default method
where there is ambiguity,
even when your invocations of the default method are specifically qualified.
It's probably not a surprise that the introduction of default methods
would lead to a desire for private methods that default methods could utilize.
Well, actually, Java 9 introduced private methods to the interface,
and I'm going to be reviewing those in the next video.